[MUSIC]
>> Aaron Frost: I wanna talk about
some of the goals of the TC39,
cuz they're the ones steering the ship
that we've all decided to be on.
So they want Java to be a better language.
They've got three,
among other goals, three big ones.
They want it to be possible to
write complex applications with it.
And they want it to be a great
language for writing libraries in.
And they want it to be great for
code generators.
They want it to be a solid
compile to language.
Something that you can compile into and
do that effectively.
They also want a testable
specification and
you guys will see today they
are adopting de facto standards.
So just whatever the industry
seems to be doing,
if that's the standard everyone's liking,
they're gonna try and
adopt those rather than try a brand
new feature on their own, right?
And you guys are gonna see,
any coffee script developers here?
So we're gonna see a lot of copy scripts
today, a lot of those features and
a lot of Pythonish type features
coming into JavaScript now.
So, if you go to esdiscuss.org/notes,
you can see all the notes from their
meetings they have once a month.
And they do them in
different places every time.
And then a lot of times,
like when you're talking about ES6,
people are like, dude, that's in ES.Next
or JS.Next or that's in ES6 or Harmony.
Like, they use these three
words interchangeably.
They don't mean the same thing,
like, they mean different things.
So I wanted to kind of talk
about what it is that they mean.
So in harmony this is like, so
we've got the current releases over here.
This is like the ES3 features,
the ES5 features, and the ES5.1 features.
These are already shipped in production
and packaged and released, right?
And then you got this whole other bucket.
And these are all features
from the future go here, okay.
So this big bucket where all
the future features are at,
that's called Harmony, okay?
And then there's this spot
in the bucket which is like
the pointer to the next release, okay.
And this is called ES.NET, right.
And currently there's a release
in that spot and it's ES6.
So ES6 is currently sitting in the next
seat but we're about to ship that, right.
So once that ships, ES6 is gonna
go over to the shipped package,
the one of these shipped releases and
ES7 is gonna drop into the ES.NEXT spot.
So ES.NEXT is a pointer to
whatever the next release
is that they're currently working on.
Harmony is all the stuff,
whether it's gonna be included or not.
Like we've all heard a Harmony
feature called object.observe, right.
That's not ES6, that's ES7.
So there are features that are currently
under development that are in ES6.
So, does anyone have any questions
about like those three buckets or
anything about like the history
that we just talked about?
Because that was our history lesson for
the day.
So I see a question here.
Can you tell us more about Straw Man?
And so straw man, I'm gonna just
pull up the spec real quick.
One second.
These proposals, okay.
So this page right here
is the harmony proposals.
We talked about Harmony being
this big bucket, this big idea.
So on this proposal's list.
You've kind of got all the features
that they wanna drop into the language.
And some of them we're gonna see and
some of them have been pushed, I got here,
remember we talked about object.observe.
So like that's kinda
down here at the bottom.
Can everyone see that,
sorry that's kinda small.
I'm gonna make it bigger.
So we've got object.observe
down here on the bottom.
And we've got a bunch of other features,
like let's find.
So like generators.
Who's excited for generators?
On the survey, we said a lot of
people were like, yeah generators.
So like generator expressions were
supposed to be in, they got pushed.
It's still being hashed out.
So these straw man
proposals are kind of like,
they're kinda like a puppet version of
this idea that they wanna implement.
They don't have any implementation ideas
or [INAUDIBLE] of how they all work but
it is an idea of how it should work.
So do you guys have any questions about,
hey, what are they strawmanning,
what are they currently thinking
about doing in the next version,
this is a place where you could
come to to find that out.
But also if you go to ES discuss and
you go to the notes.
This notes page would also show
you what they're talking about.
So they met three days in July.
If you wanted to see those notes
from the 31st, you come in here and
you can kind of see who's talking what,
who's saying what.
And you can kind of see
who the players are.
So Alan Wasbrack, we've got Jeff Morison,
we've got Voodoo Kats, Sebastian Markets.
So, you can kind of see
who the players are and
who's getting involved in what features.
If you wanna stay up to date on the stuff.
You can also follow ES Discuss on Twitter.
I think it's Jason Orndorff who
runs the Twitter account and
he kind of posts 140 character gems
about what they talk about so.
Anyway, that's another thing.
And if you follow the Twitter handle,
you'll also be able to see
when they post new notes.
When the notes gets uploaded,
they'll tweet it out.
How that answered the guy who
wants to know about straw man?
So, we've got a question, how do
some proposals move to ES7 from ES6?
So I'll give you the idea, and
then I'll show an example.
So, they've eventually
gotta ship software.
Some of us know, we have been at work
where, we don't release, we don't release,
because we're trying to
make something perfect and
we wanna rewrite it and revamp it.
But eventually, you gotta cut or
release, right?
So ES6 is gotta be cut eventually
like if they sit here and
rev on classes until everyone agrees,
they will never release classes.
Because not everyone is gonna agree
ever on that one specifically.
And so, when they get to a point where
we're not agreeing on it, it gets pushed.
And they do that, that's kind of like
where everyone has to accept it.
If we can't agree on it,
it's not going in and
everyone is gonna have to embrace that.
If the whole community doesn't agree with
you, you can't be really emotional that
everyone else doesn't
defend your point of view.
That's just how it is.
So let me give you an example classes and
we will talk about this later.
But if you go down to the very bottom of
this class [INAUDIBLE] up a little bit.
You see this right here.
This is intended as a closed-ended
proposal and is not open for
major feature additions.
So the name of this page is
maximally minimal classes.
So it's not classes,
this is what we could do to get it out.
And if you read this,
it says future edition of x or
episodic ECMAScript may and
probably will extend this definition.
However, for the intend of ES6,
is only to include the features
described in this proposal.
Attempting to extend this proposal
is likely to result in deadlock
that would result in the inclusion of
no class definition support in ES6.
So eventually,
if no one can agree on your stuff, you
are gonna get bumped to the next release.
So if you really, really care about it,
you've either got to get ready to
compromise or you gotta get ready
to push you to the next release.
And so,
that's kind of how things get moved out.
So anything that you saw moved out,
obviously something you really cared
about, like array comprehensions.
Some people write arrays comprehensions,
they got pushed because they
couldn't agree on that.
Maybe it was the syntax,
maybe some people wanted a more powerful,
maybe some people wanted different syntax
around it but for whatever reason things
are getting pushed when the strawman
proposals can get accepted fast enough.
So hopefully that answered
everyone's questions.
Said what are the factors?
That probably varies prospect,
I don't know.
Okay, he says the answer is good.
Yes, okay.
So that was the history of JavaScript.
We're good to move on.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: One thing
I think somebody mentions on slide 31 and
34, the groupings were just backwards.
Can you just maybe make know that?
I think [INAUDIBLE].
>> Speaker 3: Like Microsoft, Yahoo.
>> Aaron Frost: Did I put
them on the wrong side?
>> Speaker 3: Basically, your slides
on one thing but then on your graphic.
>> Aaron Frost: It was the opposite?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, it was the opposite.
So your slides are real-
>> Aaron Frost: Slides are the real thing.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, so-
>> Aaron Frost: Not the graphic.
>> Speaker 3: The graphic, yeah okay.
>> Aaron Frost: Yeah,
sorry guys didn't mean to confuse anyone.
Hopefully everyone's- [CROSSTALK]
So
I'm gonna talk about these features today.
These are what we're gonna learn.
Some of these, I could do an hour and
a half two hours on each.
We don't have that kind of time today.
So, on some of them where you guys were
like, dude go all the way deep man, go,
do more of that.
It was like I'm not gonna do everything
about all of it because we don't have
enough time.
And it's a thing that we could spend
a week on if we were seriously like,
let's talk about all the intricacies and
the nuances of every new feature, it
would take us a really, really long time.
So I've picked these ones out and
this is what we're gonna talk about today.